# What is GEOGLOWS?

![image](static/images/image3.png)

## Overview

The GEOGLOWS (Global Earth Observations Global Water Sustainability) initiative is a collaborative effort aimed at improving global water
sustainability through advanced hydrological forecasting and data analysis. Leveraging the power of Earth observations, numerical weather predictions,
and supercomputing, GEOGLOWS provides actionable information through our hydrologic model, the River Forecast System (RFS). RFS provides streamflow
time series data for over 6 million river segments worldwide. By making decades of historical climatological flow data and future forecasts easily
accessible, RFS supports informed decision-making in water resource management, disaster risk reduction, and climate adaptation. This global service
enables countries and organizations to enhance their understanding of water-related challenges and implement effective solutions, ultimately
contributing to a more sustainable and resilient future.

## History

The GEOGLOWS initiative, established under the framework of the Group on Earth Observations (GEO), has its roots in a commitment to integrate Earth
observation data to enhance global water sustainability. The journey began in 2014 at the GEO Plenary in Geneva, where the need for coordinated water
data management became evident. With support from partners such as NASA, ECMWF, and regional organizations, GEOGLOWS evolved from early efforts in the
Dominican Republic to a broader application of global hydrological modeling. By leveraging advanced technologies, including the ECMWFâ€™s global weather
forecasts and cutting-edge cloud computing, GEOGLOWS pioneered global streamflow forecasting services in the creation of the model that is now known
as RFS. These services provide critical information to support decision-making in water management, helping to mitigate the impacts of floods,
droughts, and other water-related challenges. Over time, the initiative has expanded its reach, integrating local and regional hydrological insights,
and fostering collaborations across continents to address the complex issues of water scarcity and disaster preparedness.

## Stories of Application

GEOGLOWS has been instrumental in transforming water management and disaster response across the globe. From helping predict floods and droughts in
Nepal, to improving transboundary flow forecasts in Bangladesh, GEOGLOWS empowers local agencies with the tools to make life-saving decisions. In the
Dominican Republic, GEOGLOWS enhances capacity for hydrological challenges, including flood risk and irrigation management. The service has extended
early warning lead times in Malawi and has been crucial in managing reservoir releases during hurricanes in Honduras. These real-world applications
demonstrate the global impact of GEOGLOWS in addressing critical water-related challenges. For more in-depth stories of how GEOGLOWS is making a
difference worldwide, visit [GEOGLOWS Stories](https://stories.geoglows.org/home).

## Joining GEOGLOWS

Are you interested in being part of the global GEOGLOWS community? By joining, you can stay updated with the latest developments, collaborate with
experts, and access valuable resources related to hydrological forecasting and water sustainability.

To join the GEOGLOWS network, simply sign up for our Google Group:
[Join the group!](https://groups.google.com/g/geoglows)

By becoming a member, you will be part of a growing community focused on advancing global water sustainability and streamflow forecasting.
